---
title: Bandit 3
---
## Bandit (level3)

### Location:
[OverTheWire](https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/)

### Goal
The password for the next level is stored in a hidden file in the **inhere** directory.  
> Possible commands to solve this level -> ls, cd, cat, file, du, find  
> **Note:** Not all commands listed above is needed

### Procedure
Avoid do mistakes such as run "cat" against the filename.  
This is wrong because, the filename has multiple spaces. Hence, to read the file, we have to either :  
Put backslash (\) to escape a space: cat spaces\ in\ this\ filename or  
Put " " : cat “spaces in this filename”

> **Note:** We can make use of Tab / Bash completion to type cat spaces<Press Tab> or cat “spaces<Press Tab>” to auto — complete the filename

#### Session Information
+ Host Name : bandit.labs.overthewire.org
+ Username : bandit3
+ Password : UmHadQclWmgdLOKQ3YNgjWxGoRMb5luK
+ Port Number : 2220


#### Methodology
To find the password for Level 4  
1. Connect and login to the account with the username & password stated above.  
2. After logging in, we will be at the home directory. Running ls, will see file spaces in this filename is right at the home directory. Hence, we don’t have to perform cd.  
3. To display contents in spaces in this filename & obtain the password, run either cat spaces\ in\ this\ filename or cat “spaces in this filename”.  
4. To logout, run exit.  


### Solution

````zsh
[# Step 1]
ssh bandit3@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220
password: UmHadQclWmgdLOKQ3YNgjWxGoRMb5luK

[# Step 2]
bandit3@bandit:~$ find .
.
./inhere
./inhere/.hidden     # This is the file that we are looking for !
./.bash_logout
./.profile
./.bashrc

[# Step 3]
bandit3@bandit:~$ cat ./inhere/.hidden
pIwrPrtPN36QITSp3EQaw936yaFoFgAB

[# Step 4]
bandit3@bandit:~$ exit
logout
Connection to bandit.labs.overthewire.org closed.
````

### Loot
Level 4 ’s Username & Password
+ Username : bandit4
+ Password : pIwrPrtPN36QITSp3EQaw936yaFoFgAB
