---
layout: posts
title: Leave Office on Time
---

So what does this really mean and why you should believe in leaving the office on time?

1. **Work is a never ending process -** Planning, planning and more planning!! Stop trying to get everything done in a day!

2. **Interest of a client is important, so is your family -** Honestly I struggle a lot at this point, spending 1 or 2 minutes on call with your family every evening isn't enough. It's good to have good links with your clients but remember on the end of business day it's just business, both are getting paid. Your family will always enrich your life more than a client ever can, give them the time they deserve.

3. **If you fall in life neither your client or boss will lend you a helping hand, your family will -** This is a very good point, no matter if you have good managers and strong connections to your clients, when things get dirty and suddenly you fall they will not be there for you. They will be the first to clean their hands off, but family always will without questioning.

4. **Life is not only about work, office, and client -** I love my team and the IT industry. It's amazing to celebrate good results but do you know what, that's one moment. With friends and family, it's continuous and without expectation.

5. **A person who stays late at the office is not a hardworking person -** If you are working 10-12 hours I beg you to look at what you are trying achieve and question whether they are genuinely adding benefit. Plan your day before you start your day, don't do it at 8am or 8.30am when your day has started as your already chasing your tail. Don't be a fool.

6. **You did not study hard or struggle in life to become a machine -** Nail on head, machines can operate 24 hours a day with the right fuel. You cannot, balance your life, remember you have 24 hours a day, 8 hours to sleep, 8 hours to work, 8 hours of your own!

7. **If your boss forces you to work late -** This was never address to me in any sort of way, but if this happens be the first to leave. Remember first of all you have a contract with an agreed working time, also you have working laws that can't be broken or they will punish the company, they were made to protect you!! Slavery ended 500 years ago...

TL;DR
ALWAYS LEAVE THE OFFICE ON TIME.
